# How to have an effective one on one

I have half hour weekly one on one meetings with my manager, Dave. We usually
talk about work, life, and career goals. It is our time to pause and reflect on
these things at a high level. Before these meetings, it felt uncomfortable to
give feedback to each another without implying something was wrong. Having
regular and short meetings allows us to highlight achievements before we forget
them, and also to bring up small concerns before they grow.

Although we meet regularly, we don't take this time for granted. Good one on one
meetings follow some patterns. I'm still refining these, but here are a few:

## Write an agenda

The night before each meeting, I spend roughly 15 minutes preparing an agenda
with bullet points of topics I want to cover. This agenda gives Dave a preview,
and a chance to gather relevant information before our meeting. It's also useful
during the meeting as an outline. I usually include:

* review last week's meeting
* high level accomplishments
* recognition for team members that are doing a great job
* questions
* reminders about upcoming events

## Take notes

I like to jot down notes during the meeting. They're never exhaustive nor
complete. I usually write down things I find useful or want to think about after
the meeting. Examples include feedback about ways I can improve, feedback about
how my manager could make the project run smoother, and things that are
happening outside of our project that's relevant to my interests. It's a good
time to discover new projects and opportunities. I find that the agenda will
often trigger us to share bits of useful information that would've otherwise
gone unmentioned.

## Call out action items

Before we end a meeting, we save a few minutes to think about what needs follow
up after the one on one. Maybe an idea that was brought up deserves more
research. Or maybe we need to schedule a team on-site. Whatever these may be, we
decide who is responsible, and when it needs to be done.

## Review and follow up

Remember "review" from the agenda? After each meeting, I dump these notes into a
email reply so we can look back on our notes at our next one on one. We can
review whether action items have been completed. This dedicated time for
reviewing is great because we don't have to waste brain cycles during the week
worrying about following up.

## Build a relationship

Dave and I have gotten to know each other better through these one on ones.
Although we get a lot out of these meetings, they feel casual and easy going. We
live in different cities, so most of our meetings happen over video chat, but
when we are in the same place, we like to do go for a walk or have a chat over
coffee.

Learning about the other person's goals and background subtly shapes our
interactions. Over time, we build up our trust in each other, and become more
effective in our day to day work. We get a better sense of the other person's
communication styles, and also what they're looking for.

## Better one on ones

It's easy to take one on ones for granted. But with some attention and care,
effective one on ones are a great tool for your career. Agendas and notes keeps
everyone focused, while review and follow up prevents things from being
forgotten or neglected. Over time, these meetings become an open and safe place
to talk about long term goals.
