# Saving $1,000 in interest using money market funds to pay bills

When interest rates were near 0% between 2008 through 2020, it made a negligible
difference to pay bills from checkings or savings. But with savings rates
hovering around 5%, it's worth about $1,000 per year for the $20k we keep in
cash for paying bills.

I made a simple system for paying bills that would follow interest rates, and
reduces taxes on the earned interest.

- Use brokerage as a payment account to take advantage of high money market
  interest rates
- Choose tax exempt money market funds to save on taxes, especially in states
  with high taxes

As a California resident, Fidelity makes this easy with
[FDLXX](https://fundresearch.fidelity.com/mutual-funds/summary/31617H300):

> The Adviser normally invests at least 99.5% of the fund's total assets in cash
> and U.S. Treasury securities. Potentially entering into reverse repurchase
> agreements. Normally investing in securities whose interest is exempt from
> state and local income taxes.

Residents in other states can find equivalents easily with a search for "tax
exempt money market funds". A nice feature of this particular fund is it can
[auto-liquidate](https://www.reddit.com/r/fidelityinvestments/comments/1aql21n/fdlxx_auto_liquidate_feature/),
meaning that payments and transfers will automatically sell this fund as needed.
We do have to manually purchase this fund because it's not available as a core
position. The core positions SPAXX and FZFXX also yield around ~5% currently,
but my understanding is they're federal and state taxable, which would hit us
with a ~22% and ~8% tax bill respectively; Eating away $300 a year in interest.
There are state specific municipal bond funds that are federal and state tax
exempt, but current yields net tax savings are below our marginal tax brackets.
[TurboTax has a checkbox to enter this information](https://www.mymoneyblog.com/turbotax-us-treasury-interest-mutual-fund-state-exempt.html).

We're not holding additional cash to take advantage of higher yields because we
are sticking with our investing strategy, but it's a nice bonus / inflation
offset to earn a little on cash we need for our day-to-day expenses. This
approach doesn't require chasing new account bonuses, or promotional interest
rates with caveats. When rates decrease, we'll lose some interest, but it's a
good set-and-forget system.
