# Environmental Hardware Upgrades: iPhone 16e

Apple announced the new iPhone 16e today. It's basically the same formula they used with their SE lineup for years. The latest processing power, in an older body style (XR?), with slightly worse camera to avoid cannablizing sales from the flagship phones, for a lower price. I've been a fan of the SE line up for years because I like how smaller phones fit in the hand, starting with my first iPhone 5s (2013), followed by the SE (2016), then SE2 (2020).

I broke with tradition in 2022 and purchased a 13 mini thinking it  would better capture family and travel photos, while still keeping the small form factor. While it's still a good phone, my original reasons for upgrading hasn't really panned out. The photos are better in low light, but for the quick point-and-shoot food/kid/dog photos, I'm not missing much. The phone's still small, but it's thicker than the SE, feeling bulky in jeans. The tiniest tiny annoyance is that it doesn't sit flush on a flat surface without a case (it does with the Apple case). The screen is larger without the bezels, but personally, I didn't mind the small screen of the SE.

Which brings me back to today's announcement for the 16e. I'm sure it'll be faster, brighter, longer lasting, and also familiar. I'm excited about having usb-c (projected year for everything in the house standardizing to one port, 2035), longer battery, and a relatively small phone. The big splash continues to be Apple intelligence, but I'm fine with waiting a few years for apps to make meaningful use fo the new hardware. Having the latest hardware in the budget iPhone means being able to take advantage of the full software support lifecycle. Apple promises 5 years, but there's been iOS releases good for 7-8 years in some cases. The battery will degrade with daily use, but even accounting for a battery swap at year 3, that would mean keeping a functional device 6 years through 2031.

I saw on the product page that AppleCare has switched over to a subscription plan for $10/mo, $100/year, or $190 for 2 years. There's a $29 glass deductible, $99 damage, and $149 for theft or loss. I would skip this and pay the premium for their case, and pony up for the battery replacement halfway through. For my 13 mini, it's a reasonable $89, and the 16 previews the cost at $99.

While there's always going to be marketing for the latest and greatest, I find the budget iPhone appealing for it's longevity and price. For $700 including a battery change, one can start with a hardware package that can comfortably last 5 years, and possibly stretch further.

I haven't pushed ownership this far because of battery degradation, but I plan to try with the 13 mini. It still feels fresh after 3 years. The battery health is at 88%, but not an issue with fast charging and my use case. The degradation will accelerate with the additional charging, but if it's lasted 3 years already, swapping it now will mean another 2-3 years with a fresh pack.